This week on The Sound Kitchen you’ll hear the answer to the question about the theme for this year’s Panafrican Film Festival of Ouagadougou. There’s “On This Day”, “Music from Erwan”, The Sound Kitchen mailbag, lots of good music - and of course, the new quiz question. Just click on the “Audio” arrow above and enjoy! Hello everyone! Welcome to The Sound Kitchen weekly podcast, published every Saturday – here on our website, or wherever you get your podcasts. You’ll hear the winner's names announced and the week’s quiz question, along with all the other ingredients you’ve grown accustomed to: your letters and essays, “On This Day”, quirky facts and news, interviews, and great music … so be sure and listen every week. I am busy cooking up special shows with your musical requests, so get them in! Send your musical requests to thesoundkitchen@rfi.fr. Tell us why you like the piece of music, too – it makes it more interesting for us all! Be sure you check out our wonderful podcasts! In addition to the breaking news articles on our site, rfienglish.com, with in-depth analysis of current affairs in France and across the globe, we have several podcasts which will leave you hungry for more. There’s Paris Perspective, Africa Calling, Spotlight on France, and of course, The Sound Kitchen. We have a bilingual series - an old-time radio show, with actors (!) to help you learn French, called Les voisins du 12 bis. And there is the excellent International Report, too. As you see, sound is still part of the RFI English service!  Keep checking our website for updates on the latest from our excellent staff of journalists. To listen to our podcasts from your PC, go to our website and click on the three horizontal bars on the top right, choose "Listen to RFI / Podcasts", and you’ve got ‘em! You can either listen directly or subscribe and receive them directly on your mobile phone. To listen to our podcasts from your mobile phone, slide through the tabs just under the lead article (the first tab is “Headline News”) until you see “Podcasts”, and choose your show. Teachers, take note! I save postcards and stamps from all over the world to send to you for your students. If you would like stamps and postcards for your students, just write and let me know. The address is english.service@rfi.fr   If you would like to donate stamps and postcards, feel free! Our address is listed below. Another idea for your students: my beloved music teacher from St Edward’s University in Austin, Texas, Br Gerald Muller, has been writing books for young adults in his retirement – and they are free! There is a volume of biographies of painters and musicians called Gentle Giants, and an excellent biography of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. They are also a good way to help you improve your English - that’s how I worked on my French, reading books which were meant for young readers – and I guarantee you, it’s a good method for improving your language skills. To get Br. Gerald’s free books, click here. RFI Clubs: Be sure to always include Audrey Iattoni (audrey.iattoni@rfi.fr) from our Listener Relations department in all your RFI Club correspondence. Remember to copy me (thesoundkitchen@rfi.fr) when you write to her so that I know what is going on, too. N.B.: You do not need to send her your quiz answers! Email overload! And don't forget, there is a Facebook page just for you, the RFI English Clubs. Only members of RFI English Clubs can belong to this group page, so when you apply to join, be sure you include the name of your RFI Club and your membership number. Everyone can look at it, but only members of the group can post on it. If you haven’t yet asked to join the group, and you are a member of an independent, officially recognised RFI English Club, go to the Facebook link above and fill out the questionnaire!!!!! (if you do not answer the questions, I click “decline”). There’s a Facebook page for members of the general RFI Listeners Club, too. Just click on the link and fill out the questionnaire, and you can connect with your fellow Club members around the world. Be sure you include your RFI Listeners Club membership number (most of them begin with an A, followed by a number) in the questionnaire, or I will have to click “Decline”, which I don’t like to do! This week’s quiz: On 30  October, I asked you a question about Fespaco – the Festival Panafricain du Cinéma de Ouagadougou (Panafrican Film Festival of Ouagadougou). Fespaco is held every two years in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. This year’s festival was held eight months later than usual, due to Covid restrictions. RFI English journalist Laura Angela Bagnetto was there, and I asked you to re-read her final article about the festival: “Somalia’s ‘Gravedigger’s Wife’ grabs top prize as best film, music at Fespaco”, and to send in the answer to this question: what was the theme for this year’s Panafrican Film Festival of Ouagadougou? The answer is: “New looks, new challenges”. As Laura Angela wrote in her article: “a telling theme given that this year’s festival was pushed back eight months due to Covid-19. The judges selected the best feature-length film from a list of seventeen offerings from 15 different African countries, including two from Egypt.” The winners are: Kolimuddin SK, who’s a member of the RFI International DX Radio Listeners Club in Murshidabad, India. There are two RFI Listeners Club members on the list of lucky winners this week: Urbe Islam from Narayanganj, Bangladesh, and Zenon Teles from the Christian – Marxist – Leninist - Maoist Association of Listening DX-ers in Goa, India. Last but not least, RFI English listeners Bushra Nawaz - a member of the Sungat Radio Listeners Club in Muzaffargarh, Pakistan - and Bernard Egbe from Abuja, Nigeria. Congratulations winners! Here’s the music you heard on this week’s programme: “Lullaby” by Antonin Dvořák, performed by Julian Lloyd Webber and John Lenehan;  “Mir ist so wunderbar” from Beethoven’s Fidelio, sung by Lucia Popp, Gundula Janowitz, Manfred Jungwirth, and Adolf Dallapozza, with the Vienna Staatsoper Orchestra conducted by Leonard Bernstein; music from the film “The Gravediggers Wife” by Andre Matthias; “The Flight of the Bumblebee” by Nicolai Rimsky-Korsakov; “Grand Polonaise Brillante, Op.22” by Frédéric Chopin, performed by Arthur Rubinstein with the San Francisco Symphony conducted by Enrique Jorda; Antonio Mendoza y Su Son; “Tengo Para Todas” by Faustino Oramas Osorio (“El Guayabero”), and “L’Esquinade” by André Minvielle. Do you have a musical request? Send it to thesoundkitchen@rfi.fr This week’s question ... You'll have to listen to the show to participate. You have until 6 December to enter this week's quiz; the winners will be announced on the 11 December podcast. When you enter, be sure you send your postal address in with your answer, and if you have one, your RFI Listeners Club membership number. Send your answers to: english.service@rfi.fr or Susan Owensby RFI – The Sound Kitchen 80, rue Camille Desmoulins 92130 Issy-les-Moulineaux France or By text … You can also send your quiz answers to The Sound Kitchen mobile phone. Dial your country’s international access code, or “ + ”, then 33 6 31 12 96 82. Don’t forget to include your mailing address in your text – and if you have one, your RFI Listeners Club membership number. To find out how you can win a special Sound Kitchen prize, click here To find out how you can become a member of the RFI Listeners Club, or to form your own official RFI Club, click here Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app