Britain's Brexit minister David Frost is due in Paris Thursday for talks on the fishing rights crisis that has further strained already tense relations between the two countries. The meeting comes a day after a French court released a British trawler impounded for a week as part of the deepening dispute. David Frost will sit down with French Europe Minister Clement Beaune to continue negotiations after several days of tense exchanges between the leaders of the two countries. Frost is a staunch defender of Brexit while Beaune is a close ally of President Emmanuel Macron, not shy of making clear his belief that France should not pay for what he sees as Britain's mistake of leaving the EU. The two have also sparred on social media. Their meeting is set to be held behind closed doors and no press conference is planned. We have set out our response to the statement from @CBeaune this evening.I look forward to our talks in Paris on Thursday. https://t.co/ctUSKp3d5L pic.twitter.com/O6iqM9eu5Q French government spokesman Gabriel Attal said there would also be a European Commission meeting on the issue during a visit by Frost on Friday, but this is yet to be confirmed by Brussels. The dispute over post-Brexit fishing rights has strained already troubled relations between Paris and London following Britain's exit from the European Union and has threatened to escalate into a full-blown trade war. While British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday made it clear that London's position had not changed there are signs both sides favour diplomacy in a bid to avoid the situation worsening. Attal emphasised that "all options were on the table" regarding future sanctions after Macron put off implementing trade sanctions to give the talks a chance. France has threatened to ban British boats from unloading their catches at French ports and to subject all British imports to inspections. Macron gives UK more time over fishing dispute  	Agree to disagree? French and British leaders at odds over fishing dispute Under a deal agreed by Britain and the EU late last year, European fishing vessels can continue to ply UK waters if they can prove they operated there in the past. But dozens of French boats have had their applications to operate in the UK's fish-rich waters rejected. (with newswires) Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app