At least 27 migrants died, Wednesday, crossing from France to England when their boat sank off the port of Calais, French authorities said, the deadliest disaster since the sea route began to be widely used in 2018. The French interior ministry said in a statement that patrol vessels found corpses and people unconscious in the water after a fisherman sounded the alarm. French police then said that 27 people had died after setting out from Dunkirk east of Calais in a boat with some 50 people on board. Three helicopters and three boats took take part in the search, local authorities said. French prosecutors have opened a manslaughter probe. Forte émotion devant le drame des nombreux morts dû au chavirage d’un bateau de migrants dans la Manche. On ne dira jamais assez le caractère criminel des passeurs qui organisent ces traversées. Je me rends sur place. French Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin, who was heading to the scene at the time of writing, wrote on Twitter that "many people" had died in the incident, adding that "the criminal nature of the smugglers who organise these crossings cannot be condemned enough". "The disaster in the Channel is a tragedy," Prime Minister Jean Castex tweeted. Le naufrage survenu dans la Manche est une tragédie.Mes pensées vont aux nombreux disparus et blessés, victimes de passeurs criminels qui exploitent leur détresse et leur misère.Je suis la situation en temps réel.@GDarmanin se rend sur place. "My thoughts are with the many missing and injured, victims of criminal smugglers who exploit their distress and misery." British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, for his part, said he was horrified after at least 27 migrants died trying to cross the Channel from France, offering closer cooperation to tackle criminal gangs behind the practice. "I am shocked, appalled and deeply saddened by the loss of life at sea," he said after convening top officials for crisis talks on the tragedy. Dozens of migrants rescued while trying to cross English Channel The disaster, the worst single loss of life since at least 2018 when migrants began using boats en masse to cross the Channel, comes as tensions grow between London and Paris over the record numbers of people crossing. Britain has urged tougher action from France to stop migrants from making the voyage. 'People are dying in the Channel' Pierre Roques, coordinator of the Auberge des Migrants NGO in Calais, said the Channel risked becoming as deadly for migrants as the Mediterranean which has seen a much heavier toll over the last years of migrants crossing. "People are dying in the Channel, which is becoming a cemetery. And as England is right opposite, people will continue to cross," he said. According to the French authorities, 31,500 people attempted to leave for Britain since the start of the year and 7,800 people have been rescued at sea, figures which have doubled since August. Tragic record as 800 migrants cross English Channel to UK in single day Seven people have been confirmed dead or are still missing feared drowned after various incidents this year. In Britain, Johnson's government is coming under intense pressure, including from its own supporters, to reduce the numbers crossing. French police said this week they had detained 15 suspected members of an international migrant smuggling syndicate that helped people illegally cross the Channel to Britain. The network of Iraqi Kurds, Romanians, Pakistanis and Vietnamese helped at least 250 people each month cross to England, taking 60 migrants at a time in small boats. Passage to England could cost a migrant €6,000 euros and some smugglers have  racked up some €3 million in total profits, said the police. 'Cynical' traffickers France's top maritime official for the northern coast Philippe Dutrieux told  French news agency AFP in an interview last week that the numbers trying to cross had doubled in the last three months. He blamed the "cynicism" of the traffickers "who throw migrants into the water as it is a business that makes money". "It has been years that we have been warning about the dangers of the situation", said Charlotte Kwantes, head of Utopia56, an association that works with migrants in Calais. She put the number of migrants who have died since 1999 in the area at "more than 300". France and UK make Channel illegal migrant crossings ‘unviable’ with increased security "As long as safe passages are not put in place between England and France, or as long as these people cannot be regularised in France there will be deaths at the border," she said. According to British authorities, more than 25,000 people have arrived illegally so far this year, already triple the figure recorded in 2020. The issue has added to growing post-Brexit tensions between Britain and France, with a row on fishing rights also still unresolved. Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app