France has recorded 208,000 new Covid cases in the past 24 hours - setting a national and European record - with Health Minister Olivier Véran telling MPs the country is facing a tsunami of infections. The 208,000 cases announced today, Wednesday, is easily France's highest daily figure since the virus emerged two years ago and is much higher than in previous waves. Daily hospital admissions for Covid in France are averaging above 1,000 a day, still well below the peak of 3,500 during the first wave in April 2020 or nearly 3,000 in the second wave in November last year. But the exponential growth in case numbers is causing alarm. The French Federation of Hospitals said Tuesday that "additional measures in order to protect public hospitals are necessary in order to avoid saturating health services and emergency wards which will inevitably lead to more cancelled operations." Many hospitals, particularly those in the hotspots of France and the southern Mediterranean coast, are already cancelling non-essential operations due to the surge in Covid admissions, most of which are unvaccinated people. Despite France having one of the highest vaccination rates in the world, with 90 percent of the eligible population having had at last one dose, Veran said that there were still five million unvaccinated people who are old enough to get jabs. ALERTE INFO - 208.000 Français infectés en 24h: devant les députés, Véran s'alarme de la diffusion du virushttps://t.co/rZISViEJ0F pic.twitter.com/fBN8JxrbqR The government is staking its strategy on a new law that will be debated in parliament from Wednesday that will require citizens to show proof of vaccination in order to enter restaurants, cinemas, museums and other public venues. The new "vaccine pass" system will replace the previous "health pass", which could be obtained by providing a recent negative Covid test in the absence of vaccination. President Emmanuel Macron has vowed to crank up restrictions on the unvaccinated, but has stopped short of making jab ALERTE INFO - 208.000 Français infectés en 24h: devant les députés, Véran s'alarme de la diffusion du virushttps://t.co/rZISViEJ0F pic.twitter.com/fBN8JxrbqR New Covid cases in France close to 180k in 24 hours, but ICU numbers still below 2020 peaks  	French premier Castex announces plans to curb spread of Omicron variant New restrictions Earlier this week, the health minister, warned  that France could reach more than 250,000 daily Covid cases by the beginning of January, as a week of unrestricted Christmas parties and family get-togethers fuel the spread of the disease. After a cabinet meeting to discuss the crisis on Monday, Prime Minister Jean Castex announced several measures to try to contain the epidemic, but shied away from mass closures or lockdowns which have been reintroduced in other EU countries such as the Netherlands. Some of the new restrictions, such as a ban on eating on high-speed trains or standing up in cafes and bars, were denounced by critics and political opponents as being too limited to be effective. The government announced Wednesday that the country's roughly 1,600 nightclubs would remain closed for a further three weeks after they were ordered shut on December 6. Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin has also encouraged local officials to limit public New Year's Eve gatherings, in particular by requiring face masks outdoors and stepping up police patrols to enforce a ban on public alcohol consumption for the night. Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app